---
layout: post
title: Week 1 in Tech Land
---

I always thought that even though I was never exposed to very much technology as a young child, that as an adult I had caught on quickly. I grew up in Zimbabwe in the 80’s and 90’s, where owning the grey brink black and white Gameboy at 10 years old was a big deal. To put it in perspective. The first time I knew what the internet was, was my freshman year in college. I was the first amongst my continent of Africa family and friends to have an email address. My parents got a home computer with internet my junior year in college.

Amongst my previous co-workers, my friends and family, I am close to the best at using various technology and social media. Although I have made a conscious effort to try have a small social media footprint when it comes to figuring out apps, how to use a kindle, the newest iPhone, a smart tv, play station and the other various devices I interacted with on a day to day basis, I consider myself as above average in being tech savvy. It may take me some time but I always figure it out. I’m the one my parents come to if they have questions about how to do various things on their phones, upload music to their iPod, account settings on their Facebook profiles or how to use PayPal etc.

I went from a science laboratory job working with microscopes, centrifuges, below zero freezers, micro pipettes to a modern-day Tech company. I thought, I got this … till I didn’t.

First things first, office keys & orientation. Okay, no sweat. Then all hell breaks loose, … they hand me a Mac. WTF? I’ve seen these things but now I’m expected to use one. Oh shit. Okay, less certain the voice in my head cheers “Okay not ideal, but you still got this.” I go to open it & well I try to open it backwards because why would the front of the computer logo be an upside-down apple, logically the apple should be the right side up – NO! My logic would be wrong, so wrong. My boss looks at me sideways. I shoot him a look back of embarrassment while also trying to communicate “I promise I’m smart.” Then I fumbled figuring out the plug charging get up. Yup, I’m pretty sure Steve is rethinking all of this.

Okay an opportunity to redeem myself. I get to sit in on my first meeting. Oh no! What language are they speaking? I’m thinking its Java, Python, Ruby or who knows. It’s a different planet I’m no on. I’m turning to the confident voice in my head for some sort of motivational speech. I got nothing. Okay, keep walking, take notes, breath, stay calm it’s your 1st day and this is so normal.

Day one ended and I survived. Phew. I even managed to use the MAC as well as uploaded and operate apps I’ve never used before to my phone. I think to myself in the car on the way home “Good recovery Carrihill, there were some first day jitters but you still got this.”

It’s the end of my 5th day and yes there have been moments where I’m looked at sideways like “Common this is so easy why are you struggling?” But then I also have moments where I redeem myself and make up for my moronic moments by asking a good question that proves that I am paying attention and do have a brain.

My feet hurt, my brain hurts but I love it. I’m not afraid of a challenge and this is exactly what my new job is. Steve has my back, is being patient with my tech naivety and has faith in me that I’ll get it in time, well by February, that’s the deadline. I’m also so fortunate to have a tech savvy husband at home to catch me up on language and ideas at the end of the day that flew over my head at work, and there is also google if all else fails. Hard work never killed anybody. How successful I will be at this job is in my hands. I do the wonder woman stand every morning for a few minutes and give myself the pep talk “You got this, you are smart, you have done a lot of hard things in your life and succeeded, they hired you for a reason.” It is helping. Currently I’m fluent in English, I’m 98% fluent in Anatomy & Physiology and soon I’ll be fluent in tech slang, Jira, Mac and more. These are the things I am certain of.
